#summary This page describes the different command line arguments which can be used to executes the algorithm

= Introduction =
The BlackBookSimulator need different types of command line arguments in order to execute it.
= Details =
===Train the classifier===
TRAIN <training data set> <training algorithm> <output file name> <classification property >
{{{
for eg

TRAIN C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet1\Montery2RDF.rdf NaiveBayes C:\Users\pralabh
\workspace2\Mallet1\MonteryTrainer2 http://blackbook.com/terms#STAT_EVENT
}}}
 * C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet1\Montery2RDF.rdf : The training data
 * NaiveBayes: Algorithm which is used to train the classifier.
 * C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet1\MonteryTrainer2: The location where trained classifier will be stored.
 * http://blackbook.com/terms#STAT_EVENT : The classification Property on the basis of which classification will be done.

Each input must be seperated by one space.

===Incremental Training===
INC_TRAIN <training data set> <Filename where the classifier stored> <Output file name> <classification Property>
{{{
for eg 

Inc_TRAIN C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet1\Montery2RDF.rdf C:\User\old_classifier c:\User\new_classifier http://blackbook.com/terms#STAT_EVENT
}}}
 * C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet1\Montery2RDF.rdf : New Training Data.
 * C:\User\old_classifier: The location where old classifier is stored.
 * c:\User\new_classifier: The location where new classifier will be stored.
 * http://blackbook.com/terms#STAT_EVENT: Classification Property.

===Classifying Stand Alone==
CLASSIFY_SD <data which is to be classified> <trainer object file name> <validation source> <Classification Property>
{{{
for eg 
CLASSIFY_SD C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet\Montery2RDF.rdf C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet1\MonteryTrainer2 C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet1\Montery2RDF.rdf http://blackbook.com/terms#STAT_EVENT
}}}
 * C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet\Montery2RDF.rdf : Data which is to be classified
 * C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet1\MonteryTrainer2 : Place where the already trained classifier is stored.
 * C:\Users\pralabh\workspace2\Mallet1\Montery2RDF.rdf : The Validation model which contains then classification of the unclassified data.(This is to compare the results of Mallet classification with actual classification)
 * http://blackbook.com/terms#STAT_EVENT: The classification Property on the basis of which classification occurred.

  